# 1.6 Compare and contrast Network topologies, architectures, and types

## Key Terms
* Mesh -
* Hybrid -
* Star/hub and spoke -
* Point to Point -
* Three-tier hierarchical model - 
* Network - group or system of interconnected computers that can share resources such as data and applications
* Local Area Network - Term for a particular network in a geographic location such as an office building, single department w/in a corporate office, home office

~ Workgroups are sometimes set up to isolate access to resources based on departments or segments within a company. One LAN might be a separate workgroup each with its own resources and devices connected to those resources. 
~ To connect two LANS we can yuse a router

### Common Network Components

1. Workstations - powerful comps w/ > 1 CPU whose resources are available to other users on the network to access. Often employed as systems that end users use on a daily basis

1a. Clienty machine != workstation since CM is any device on a network that can ask for access to resources

2. Servers - Usually run as specialized machines designed to handle one important labor intensive job.
    | File | Mail | Print | Web | Fax | Application | Telephony | Proxy 

3. Hosts - Any network Device with an IP address

### Network Types
1. Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) - covers large metro area to interconnect various buildings, facilities over a carrier provider network. 

2. Wide Area Network (WAN) - SPan large geographic distances
a. need a router port or ports
b. span larger geographic areas and/or link disparate locations
c. usually slower than LAN
d. utilize private or public data transport media such as phone lines

3. Personal Area Network (PAN) - close proximity connections via ethernet, usb, buletooth, infrared or ZigBee

4. Campus Area Network (CAN) - covers limited geographical network such as a college or corporate campus. Interconnects LANs in various builidng and offers Wi-Fi component for roaming users. b/w LAN & WAN in scope

5. Storage Area Netowork (SAN) - designed for, used exclusively by, storage system. Interconnect Servers to storage arrays containning centralized storage media

6. Software-defined Wide Area Network (SDWAN) - virtual WAN architecture. Software used to manage connectivity, devices, and servies. Make changes based on current operations
a. Multiprotocol Label Switching - imposes labels (numbers) to data and then uses those labels to forward data when it arrives at the MPLS network
a1. labels assigned on edge of MPLS network w/ forwarding inside MPSLNet based on lables through virtual instead of physical links. 
